[Transcript missing]
My name is Joshua Pennington,
and I'm an engineer on the
Interface Builder team.
And I'm going to be joined
later on by my colleague Rob.
And we're here today to talk about
building apps using Storyboarding.
Storyboarding is a great new way
for you to build your applications.
Now, we made Storyboarding because
most applications are composed
of many screens of content.
And what we wanted to do is have
a way for you to view and edit
your entire interface for the
entire application in one place.
And so we put together a tool to do that.
This is Storyboarding.
And as you can see,
we display each screen of content or
major component area for something
like an iPad split view controller.
And we display the transitions between
the scenes in the canvas as lines.
And these show the flow of information
and transitions throughout your app.
application.
So we're going to cover
a couple things today.
We're going to start out by
talking about the key concepts of
Storyboarding and what makes it unique.
And then we're going to move
on and talk about how to move
data through your Storyboard.
Most applications involve
a lot of data transfer.
You need to pass information through
the various screens of content.
Then Rob's going to come on
stage and he's going to talk
for a bit about the API,
and what it's like to use
Storyboarding at runtime.
And he's going to finish off by showing
you how you can begin to integrate
Storyboards into your applications today.
So, let's get started.
There really are two primary concepts
that make Storyboarding unique.
The first one is that of a scene.
A scene represents one
screen full of content,
or major component area like a pane
in the split view controller on iPad.
And this is very familiar to
the existing editor affordances.
You have an Interface Builder today.
So, if you're familiar
with Interface Builder,
this part's going to be a breeze.
You can drag and drop views
in and rearrange them,
and resize the controls.
Once again, this is very familiar to the
existing Interface Builder.
And below each scene,
we have what we call the Dock.
Now, the Dock is like the top level
objects area in a Nib file.
And this is where we have
the view controller that
represents the scene at runtime.
And you can also drag
and drop objects in.
So, if you have a data source object,
you can just drag one of those from
the library in and put it in there.
Then you can wire up an outlet
to it and get access to it.
So, that's the first concept that
is present in storyboarding,
the scene.
The second concept is that of a Segway.
A Segway represents a transition
between one scene to another one.
And it also is used to represent
the presentation of another scene.
Say, for instance, with a popover.
We have different types of Segways.
So,
a very common one would be a Push Segway,
which is where you would use a
navigation controller to slide
another scene onto the screen.
Or you could display a modal
view controller and slide one up.
We have all the built-in
modal transition styles,
such as cross dissolve and flip.
And as an added benefit,
you can customize these Segways by
subclassing it and overriding a method
to perform your own visual transition.
So, you know, if there's not a built-in
style that you need,
there's a very clearly defined
place for you to customize that.
So, that's the second key concept
present in storyboarding.
Most applications involve a lot
of transfer of data between the
different screens of content.
So, we're going to cover a couple
of those and talk about some
best practices you can use for
doing this in your applications.
Most applications are going to
have a lot of screens of content
connected by these Segways.
And you need to sometimes pass
information down to a scene
that's being presented so it can
display the correct information.
So, that's one form of data transfer.
The second type of transfer would
be getting information back or
receiving notification that an
event has occurred from a scene
that's already been presented.
And we use a central choke point for
all these types of data transfer.
And so, if there's one thing you need
to remember about storyboarding,
it's this method, prepare for Segway.
This is a method on UI view
controller that is invoked
on the source view controller
whenever a Segway is initiated.
And this gives you the chance
to prepare for that scene,
be it passing it information or
updating some state inside the scene
that is doing the presentation.
So, let's say you have a list of
brewing sessions and when the
user taps on a table view cell,
you display the detail view controller.
What's some more information about that?
Well, it's really easy to
define that transition.
You just connect a Segway to have a
navigation controller push across that
other scene to display the details.
And then to tell the detail scene
what it should be displaying,
you would override prepare for Segway
on that source list view controller.
And you would wire up and pass across
your object that defines whatever
it is that needs to be displayed.
And then that detailed view
controller could do whatever
it needs to display that.
So that is how we pass information
down to a scene that's being presented.
Now, the second type of data transfer
is getting information back from a
scene that's already been presented.
So what would this look like?
Well, in this example where we have
a list of brewing sessions,
let's say we have an add button,
that when you tap that,
we slide up an add sheet.
So users can enter in information
and say maybe hit a done button
to commit that to the model and
continue on with their application.
So how do we get this information
back when the user hits the
done button so we can continue?
Well, we would use that prepare for
segue method to wire up a delegate
from the add session controller
to the other view controller.
And so we would create a custom
protocol on the add session scene.
And this is just a standard
Objective C language mechanism.
And we'd have a property
on that called delegate.
And we would use prepare for
segue to wire up that delegate
from the add session scene over
to the other view controller.
And then we'd have an
action from the done button.
And when that action is invoked
on the add session scene,
it would do whatever it needs to do
to commit that object to the model.
It would pull the details out of the
various fields in there and commit it to,
say, a core data store.
And then it would wire the
information back across the delegate.
And then the original list could
do whatever it needs with it,
and dismiss the controller.
So that is how we bring information back.
The other form of transferring
and viewing information in
Storyboards is with table views.
We have a great new feature
for table views in Storyboards,
and that is prototype-based tables.
Now, prototype-based tables allow you
to design the cells that go into
a table view in Interface Builder,
and easily dequeue those at runtime.
So, what this means is that you can
drag a cell out from the library in
Interface Builder and configure it,
drag in some labels maybe,
and add an image view or whatever.
It's up to you.
And then you can assign that
cell a reuse identifier.
And at runtime, in the familiar table
view data source methods,
you could simply ask the table view to,
make you a new cell,
make you a copy of that
cell from the Storyboard.
And it'll do all the work for you,
and grab that cell from the Storyboard
and put it in the table view for display.
So, this is really easy to use,
and it's also very efficient,
because we've done some cool things
behind the scenes to avoid redundancy.
We think this is really neat,
in that it's going to help you save
a lot of time when you're designing
your table views in Interface Builder.
That's great if you have a standard
table view where you've got a list
of information that's data-driven.
But, we often know what we want
to display in our table views
before the application even runs.
Maybe what we really want
are static table views.
So, we've introduced that as well.
You can now statically define
table views within a Storyboard.
Yeah.
I'm pretty excited about this.
So what you can do is,
you can design the cells
in line in the table view.
You can drag in sections
and headers and footers,
all the normal affordances you'd
have in a table view that's powered
by a delegate and a data source.
Except that, you can do it all with
an Interface Builder,
so it's really quick,
and it's immediately obvious
to you as you're designing it,
what it's going to look like
when you hit build and run.
And the beauty of it is,
you do not have to write a data source.
So you can just build and run,
and what you have in the canvas in
Interface Builder is going to show
up in your application at runtime.
And you can even wire up outlets to
the contents of these table view cells,
so you can customize them
with data at runtime,
if you happen to know
how many cells you want.
You can design that part
statically and fill in the details.
So we've covered a couple things here
for dealing with data in Storyboards.
So let's use these things
to build an application.
Now, I really like coffee.
A lot.
And I also really like data.
And I would love nothing more than
to take the two and to slam them
together and make an app that I could
use to keep track of the coffees
that I've tried and the various
cups of coffee that I've brewed.
So let's build an application together.
And this app is going to be
composed of really three main parts.
So we're going to start with
the list of the brewing sessions
that the users participated in.
So they can refer to it later on.
We're going to have an add
button that they can tap.
And when that's tapped,
we'll present a controller where
they can enter in information
about a brewing session.
They can enter in some details about it.
And when they tap on that coffee cell,
we're going to present a list
of coffees so they can choose
which coffee it was they used.
So with that, let's get started.
So I'm going to go ahead
and start my demo over here.
And I've got a new project that
I created that uses a storyboard.
I'm going to resize that
to be a little bit bigger.
And this is just a standard
storyboard-based project.
We have these in the Xcode templates now.
And we've got a blank canvas here.
And this is where we're going to flesh
out the interface for our application.
I'm going to add a new
scene to our application.
Scenes in Interface Builder are
represented by view controllers.
So I'm going to drag one out of
the library in the lower right.
I'm going to scroll down and just drag
out a new table view controller to
manage this list of brewing sessions.
It's going to plop it down on the canvas.
[Transcript missing]
Now,
when the user taps on one of these cells,
I want to push across our
detail view controller,
using a navigation controller.
So let's add a navigation
controller into the mix,
so we can get that behavior.
I'm going to use the new editor
embed navigation command for this.
Give it a click,
editor embed navigation controller.
And we've added a navigation controller.
Now, you'll notice that the
Storyboard automatically
showed a navigation bar for us.
This is very important,
because it means that our table view
is going to be the correct height.
So when we design our interface,
everything's going to be lined
up and perfectly arranged,
as it will be at runtime.
So I'm just going to
give this guy a title.
I'm going to double click the tab item.
And I'm going to give
this the name of our app,
Daily Buzz.
All right,
now let's design that table view
cell that's going to show some
information about our brewing sessions.
I'm going to drag out some labels.
Just going to scroll up in the
library here and drag out a new label.
All right,
I'm going to resize that to be a little
bit wider with the resize handle.
And I'm going to duplicate
that using Command + D,
and rearrange it here.
That's going to be for the
temperature of the water,
and I'm going to duplicate
it again for the date label,
so we can know when this
brewing session took place.
I'm gonna make this label a
little shorter and right aligned.
I'm going to use the
attributes inspector for this.
I'm gonna use the alignment control
and change that to right aligned.
All right, perfect.
So let's customize this label here.
This is going to represent the
name of the coffee that was
used in the brewing session.
So I'm going to give it
some information here.
Coffee name.
And I think that we
should make that bold,
because that's a very important
part of a brewing session.
Just gonna use the font inspector
to change that to be system bold.
All right.
And this label here is going
to represent the temperature
of the water that we used.
So I'm just going to give
it some placeholder data.
All right,
and do the same for the date label.
OK, so like I said,
we have a subclass of TableViewCell,
which has three outlets that we're
going to wire up to these labels.
So when we copy this cell at runtime,
we can fill it in with the
relevant information for the
particular brewing session that
is being displayed by that cell.
So I'm going to select a cell and change
its class in the identity inspector
to be our subclass of TableViewCell.
Once again, I'm going to use the
custom class inspector.
And I'm going to change
that to our cell subclass.
And we have those three outlets.
So we can use outlets and actions just
like we always have in Interface Builder.
So I'm going to wire up this outlet
that we have defined on our subclass
to these labels by control dragging
from the cell and selecting the labels.
So I'm going to control drag
here and choose that date label.
I'm going to choose the-- oh, I'm sorry.
I used the wrong subclass.
It usually helps if you
choose the right one.
There we go.
All right.
So I'm going to connect
the date label up.
and choose date label.
Gonna do the same for
the coffee name label.
Alright.
And once again for the temperature label.
Okay, so we have our cell configured
here in Interface Builder,
ready to be copied at runtime to
display the table view's data.
So, to refer to this cell at runtime,
we need to assign it a reuse identifier,
so we can have some way to access it.
So, in the attributes inspector
for this table view cell,
I'm going to assign it an identifier.
I'm going to give it the
name BrewSessionCell.
And we have everything on the
Storyboard side for this list right now.
So let's hop over to that
subclass of TableViewController
that manages this list.
So we can fill out its
TableViewDataSource method that
grabs a cell for a particular row,
so the TableView can display it.
We're going to use the jump
bar to hop over to that file.
And I'm going to go to
Bruce Sessions' ViewController.
And we've got a really simple class here.
It just grabs some information
from core data and fills out some
basic TableViewDataSource methods.
I'm going to paste in that
TableViewDataSource method
I referred to a second ago.
And what this method does is
it grabs the model object that
represents a brewing session,
and it then asks the TableView for
a copy of that cell we just
designed in the storyboard.
And there's a property on that
subclass of that TableView cell that
we can assign that model object to.
And when we do so,
it's going to access those outlets we
just established through those labels.
And it's going to take the
details from the model object
and display them on there.
So it's a very straightforward process.
So I'm going to hit Build and Run,
and we'll take a look.
Xcode's compiling our project and
launching it in the simulator.
And we can see here that
our application is launched,
and it's displaying the list
of brewing sessions that are
already in our core data model.
So you can see how quickly we
were able to build a table view
that's powered by data at runtime
and display some information.
So let's continue to flesh this out
to show our detail view controller.
I'm gonna quit the simulator.
And I'm gonna hop back over to
that storyboard using the jump bar.
Let's add another scene to represent
that detail view controller.
Once again,
we just grab a new view controller out
of the library and add it to the canvas.
So I'm going to scroll down and
grab another table view controller.
And this time,
I'm going to use a static table
view to display the information,
because we already know that there's
going to be three pieces of information
that we're going to display.
So we can just drag out three
cells and design them there
in line in the table view.
What we want to have happen is,
we want to display this detail
scene when the user taps on
one of these table views.
To do so, we're going to create a segue.
Now, segues are created just like actions
or outlets are in Interface Builder.
We control drag from an event
source and choose the destination.
So I'm going to control drag from that
table view cell and select our scene.
Control drag,
and it's going to ask for confirmation.
I'm going to choose segue.
And you can see it has
created a push segue for us.
Now, the storyboard automatically
chose to use a push segue,
because it could tell that our
application was living in the
context of a navigation controller.
And that was probably
what we wanted to do.
So when the user taps on that cell,
we're going to slide across
that scene automatically.
It's going to give this guy a title.
Let's go Brew Session or Brew Details.
All right,
and let's use a static table view.
We can change a table view
controller to use a static table
view by selecting its table view,
and in the attributes inspector,
we'll change the content type from
dynamic prototypes to static cells.
Let's give that a click.
I would like to use a
grouped table view for this,
because I like the way that looks.
I'm just going to change
the style to grouped.
And I'm going to start out
with just one cell for now.
I'm just going to give
those two a delete.
So you can see,
we're able to design the cells right
there inline in Interface Builder.
And this is going to look
exactly how it will at runtime.
So, let's drag out a label to act as
kind of some information about
what we're trying to display here.
I'm gonna resize that to
give us a bit of room.
And let's make this right align,
so I'm gonna use that alignment property.
And I think we're gonna
give that the name Coffee.
All right,
and let's make that bold as well.
Gonna use the font inspector.
And now we need to add a label that's
going to correspond to the value
we're going to update at runtime.
So I'm gonna drag out another
label and add it alongside.
I'm gonna resize that as well
to make sure we have room.
Let's change the text color
to something a bit lighter.
Gonna choose steel, I like that color.
Okay, so we've got our first cell.
I would like to duplicate this
to add room for the other two
pieces of information we're going
to display information about.
So I'm going to select the table
view section in the jump bar.
And I'm going to bump up the
number of rows from one to three.
Give it two clicks.
And you can see that the table view
editor automatically copied the
contents of these cells for us.
Yeah, it's pretty neat.
I wouldn't want to do this any other way.
So let's change the label on
the left here to be temperature.
And I'm going to change
this bottom one to be date.
I have another subclass
of TableViewController,
which knows how to get the information
out of that brew session model object,
much like that TableView cell,
and display it on three labels that we're
going to wire up inside of our TableView.
So I'm just going to change the
class of this TableViewController
to be that subclass.
I'm going to change that and
choose brew session details.
and I'm going to control drag
from the table view controller,
and select those three outlets.
I'm gonna start with the coffee name.
Just gonna wire that up,
choose coffee name.
You can do the same for temperature.
I'm gonna choose that.
And for date.
Okay, so we've got the
DetailViewController fleshed out.
We've got our list.
We have a segue that
tells it to slide across.
Now all that's left is we need to tell
that DetailViewController what it's
supposed to show information about.
So we're going to use that piece
of API I referred to earlier,
prepareForSegue.
So let's hop over to our
implementation file for the
list and implement that method.
Now, before we do so,
we should give this segue an identifier
so we can refer to it at runtime.
I'm going to click on the
segue and view its inspector.
Segues are just like any other
object in Interface Builder,
in that you can select them and
interact with their properties.
I'm going to switch over to
the Attributes Inspector.
And in the identifier field,
I'm going to give it a name.
ShowBrewDetails.
All right.
And now I'm going to hop over
to that implementation file.
implementation file.
I'm going to add my
prepare for segue method.
Let's paste that in.
All right,
so let's take a look at what this does.
The first thing we do is we
check the identifier to make
sure that we're interacting with
the segue that we think we are.
This is a simple
future-proofing mechanism.
What if you go and add a segue later on?
You wouldn't want to be doing
the same setup work for that.
So you always want to check for this.
And then after that,
we get the model object
out of our core database,
and we assign it to the detail
view controller of the segue.
The segue gives us all of the
context for how it's being presented,
in that it has the
destination view controller.
That's the scene that's being presented.
In our case,
that's the detail view controller.
It also contains some other information
that Rob's going to talk about later on.
So we give that brewing session
object to our detail view controller,
and the storyboard does the rest for us.
So let's hit build and
run and take a look.
So we've got our list again.
And now when we tap on one
of these table view cells,
We're going to see the details about it.
So you can see that we were very easily
able to put together these two scenes,
connect them up with a segue so that
we can get this transition at runtime
using the navigation controller.
And then we were able to pass context
to that scene as it's presented,
so it can display the
correct information.
So that's how you pass information down
into a scene that's being presented.
What about the other way we talked about?
What about bringing information back from
a scene that's already been presented?
Let's talk about that.
I've got another storyboard
that I'm going to jump to.
And I've used these same fundamental
techniques of building table views
and connecting segues to continue
to flesh out our coffee app.
Let's take a look.
So I'm going to open up this other
project here and quit the simulator.
Just going to give that a quick.
And I'm going to open
up that other project.
And you can see here,
we have another Storyboard.
And we've added a bit
of extra content to it.
We've got three more scenes at the top.
Let's talk about those.
But first, you may notice that we
are zoomed out right now.
Storyboards have the concept
of a zoom level on the canvas.
So you can both zoom
into the editing level,
so you can interact with the controls.
And this is just a standard mode that
Interface Builder has always used.
Or you can zoom out to get an overview
of all the scenes in your application.
This is really good for
getting a high level conceptual
overview of your application,
because it allows you to see at a
glance the flow of your application.
So let's take a look at what we've added.
I'm going to zoom in by
double clicking on the canvas.
And you'll see that we've added a plus
button here that you can tap to show a
controller that allows the user to enter
in information about a brewing session.
Now,
the way we've implemented this particular
scene is we have a modal segue that
presents a navigation controller.
And that navigation controller has the
ad scene as its root view controller.
We've done this,
we've added this navigation
controller as well,
so that we can use the navigation
controller to slide on another screen
whenever the user taps on the coffee
cell that's present in the ad scene.
So, we've got this ad scene here.
It's got its table view configured,
and it's got two buttons at the top.
What we're going to use is we're going to
wire up two actions from those buttons to
two different methods that are in our ad
session scene view controller subclass.
That are going to refer back to the
list via a delegate to tell it that
the user has hit cancel or done,
so it can continue on
and do the correct thing.
We've already implemented
that delegate here,
and I'm sure you're all going to be
really curious about how to do that.
So, we're going to do it in a second.
But first,
we're going to wire up these two
buttons to those two existing
methods in our subclass.
So I'm going to control
drag from the cancel button,
and choose the view controller.
This is just like making an
action in Interface Builder.
So I'm going to control drag,
choose the view controller,
and I'm going to select
the cancel method.
Going to do the same
with the done button.
Going to wire that up to the scene there,
and choose done.
Save that and hit build and run.
And we'll take a look at what we have.
So once again, we've got our list.
When you tap on one of the cells,
we'll show the detail view controller.
But now, when you tap on that Add button,
we present a modal view controller.
And we have those two buttons
that are wired up to two methods
on our add scene view controller.
And those are going to communicate
back using a delegate to the list.
And when they do that,
the list is going to call dismiss
view controller to get rid
of the modal view controller.
So let's hit cancel and take a look.
So you can see, it worked.
So I'm gonna quit the simulator,
and we're gonna talk about
this coffees list here.
I have another scene that's kind of
floating there for you in the canvas.
And that's the scene that's going to
manage displaying the list of coffees.
And when the user taps
on the coffee cell,
we're going to show that.
We're also going to talk
about how to use a delegate to
relay that information back.
Let's wire up a segue from the coffee
cell to this table view controller.
It's going to control
drag and choose a scene,
and establish a segue.
So, once again, we've correctly added
a navigation bar there,
and we can give it a navigation title.
Gonna call it Coffees.
Let's change the title.
That's not what I wanted.
Let's try this again.
Hmm.
Well, that looks like a bug.
I'll take a look at that later.
And we've got our coffees list.
So we've got that segue.
And what we really
want to have happen is,
when the user taps on
that table view cell,
we want to relay the
coffee that he selected,
or he or she selected,
and pass that back to our add scene.
So we're going to use
a delegate for that.
Let's hop over to the header file for
the coffee scene and add a protocol
that's going to define our delegate.
All right,
so I'm going to hop over to the
header file for the coffee scene.
And I'm going to add a protocol
that defines our delegate.
I'm going to paste that in.
And this is a really simple method.
We simply relay back the
coffee that the user selected.
So let's add a forward
declaration for our protocol.
And let's add a property.
This is just a really simple delegate.
And I'm going to hop over
to the implementation file.
And now we're going to add the familiar
TableViewDidSelectRowAtIndexPath method,
so we can be informed whenever
the TableView receives a
tap on a particular row.
And we're going to get the model
object that represents that coffee,
and we're going to relay
it back to that delegate,
using that property and that
protocol we just defined.
And this really is the basis
of how you'll do this for
all of your applications.
So let's scroll down and
add our TableView method.
Oh, whoops, first let's add our
synthesize for our delegates,
so the compiler can automatically
add our accessor methods.
And we'll add the method down here.
So, what this does is it
asks the table views,
the table view for its row,
it's got it here as a parameter,
and then it asks the core data model
to get the model object for that.
And we're gonna simply just call
the delegate and pass that through.
All right,
so now what we want to have happen
is we want to set the delegate of
this coffees list to the add scene,
so that when the user taps on that,
we can pass that object there and it
can commit it to the core data model.
So let's hop back over to the add scene
view controllers implementation file.
And we need to declare that this
class conforms to that delegate
protocol we just established.
So I'm going to put that in there.
And now we need to implement
that delegate method that tells
us the user selected a coffee.
I happen to have a property here already,
selected coffee,
which represents the coffee
that the user selected.
So I'm going to paste
in that delegate method.
And this simply sets that method,
and then it pops the view controller
on the navigation controller,
so that when the user taps on it,
we automatically dismiss
the coffees list.
So that's pretty straightforward.
So now what we need to do is we need
to wire up that delegate property.
From the coffees list to the ad scene,
whenever the scene is being displayed,
so when the user taps,
we can get that call back.
So first,
let's go over to the Storyboard and give
that segue we created an identifier,
so we can implement our
prepare for segue method.
All right, I'm going to select that,
and I'm going to give it an identifier.
I'm going to type in show coffees,
that's a good name.
And I'm going to hop
back over to that file,
so we can add our
Prepare for Segway method.
I'm just going to add that there.
And once again,
we check the identifier of the segue
to make sure that we are interacting in
response to the correct segue firing,
in case we add a second
one in the future.
And in this case,
we access the destination
view controller.
That's the coffees list.
And we set its delegate
protocol back to the receiver.
So I'm going to hit Build and Run,
and let's take a look.
So we've got our list.
I'm going to hit the Add button.
And I can tap on the temperature
field and give it some value.
203 is a good brewing temperature.
And I'm going to tap the coffee cell.
And when we do that,
we have presented a table
view with a list of coffees.
And when I tap on one,
It's going to slide back over,
and you can see it's updated our
label with the correct information.
So that's how we pass
information back from a scene
that's already been presented.
We use a delegate.
I'm going to hit Done,
and it's added it to our core data model.
So you can see here at the bottom,
we have that brewing session
that we just entered in.
It's ready to be displayed using
the Detail View Controller.
So that's it for my demo right now.
And you can see that we were able to
very quickly put together an application
that would have taken a very long time to
build if we had written it all in code.
And we were able to use those
key concepts that I talked about.
We created scenes with
segues connecting them.
And then we were able to pass data to
scenes as they were being displayed.
And we were able to
bring information back.
So that was it for my demo.
Can we go back to the slides, please?
Thanks.
So once again,
we used all these core principles in
Storyboards to shuttle the data around
and very quickly assemble our interface.
So now Rob's going to come on stage,
and he's going to talk to you
about how you can interact
with Storyboards at runtime,
and how you can begin to integrate
these into your applications today.
Thank you.
So what do you guys think?
So we think it's pretty great.
So, as Josh said, my name is Rob,
and today I am here to talk to you
about the API for interacting with
storyboards in your source files,
and how to integrate storyboards
into your applications today.
So, let's start with the API.
There are really three key parts to this.
There's UI Storyboard,
UI View Controller,
and UI Storyboard Segway.
Let's start by talking
about UIStoryboard.
And really,
an instance of a UIStoryboard object is a
runtime representation of everything that
you've configured inside of your editor.
And the way you load one of these in your
app is either by calling this method,
StoryboardWithNameBundle,
on UIStoryboard,
and getting back an instance.
And you would typically do this if
you're trying to load some UI from
the Storyboard that's not the first
thing that the user is going to see.
Alternatively,
if your Storyboard does represent the
starting point of your application's
user interface from launch,
you could specify the name of
the file in your application's
Info.plist using this key,
UIMainStoryboardFile.
This behaves the same
way as it does for NIBs.
And when you do that,
when your application launches,
the UI application object just asks the
Info.plist for the value of this key,
and calls this exact code.
It's everything that you would do,
we just do it for you.
Once you have a Storyboard,
what do you do with it?
Well, typically,
you're going to be loading view
controllers from your Storyboard.
These are the scenes inside
of our editor experience.
And the two ways that you do this
are by taking advantage of things
that you've set up in the editor.
You can either load the initial
view controller of the Storyboard,
or you can set arbitrary identifiers on
view controllers inside of the editor,
and load them using instantiate
view controller with identifier.
A UIStoryboard, at the end of the day,
is a series of NIBs.
It's a series of NIBs.
And some metadata that we
can use at runtime to perform
efficient loading and unloading.
Why am I bringing that up?
Well, for you,
this means that API that you're used
to continues to work for doing your
custom initialization and setup.
You can use ViewDidLoad, AwakeFromNib,
and Aniwa Coder to do things
dynamically when your view
controller is about to appear.
So we have a UI storyboard,
we have a view controller,
now what do we do with them?
In addition to everything else
that your view controllers do,
they perform a critical
role in the passing of data
throughout your application.
Josh introduced you to PrepareForSegue,
which is your opportunity to load
the view controller that's about to
present user interface to your users,
and set it up before it appears.
A view controller also has a
back pointer to the storyboard
that it was loaded from.
And what that means is that
you can use that to load other
arbitrary view controllers,
and have them load your view controller.
And this allows you to load
your view controller at any
point in your application.
This allows for some really powerful
user interfaces that adapt dynamically in
response to what's going on around them.
And besides interacting with
and participating in segues,
view controllers also can perform them.
You can set this up inside
of Interface Builder,
the way that we've shown you,
by connecting actions
inside of the canvas.
But we've also added support in
iOS 5 for gesture recognizers.
So you can perform a segue in
response to a multi-touch gesture.
And in code,
you can even perform these in response
to things like device motion events,
or even sound.
I don't know how to do
it in response to sound,
but I'm sure people in the audience do.
What is a segue?
Well...
You'll probably be interacting
with segues in two contexts.
The first is as information for
your prepare for segue method.
And here,
the thing that you care about is
probably the view controller that's
about to present UI to the user,
and the identifier of the segue,
so that way you can know right
then what segue the user initiated,
so you can perform the proper setup.
We also have a subclass
of this in the frameworks,
which is UI Storyboard Popover Segway.
And just like it does everything
that every other Segway does,
but it also lets you get to the
popover controller that's about
to present the view controller.
It's pretty handy.
The other way that you'll
interact with Storyboard Segways
is by creating them yourself.
And here,
the thing that's important to know is
the view controller that performed you,
the view controller whose
UI you're responsible for loading,
and some point in the middle at which
you can execute your own transition,
and take care of any relationships
of the view controllers as
they're about to appear.
And that's the API.
It's pretty simple,
and it's intentionally simple.
It's really representative of a beautiful
marriage between the tools and the
frameworks to let you take advantage
of things you can design visually and
easily inside of the editor at runtime.
Now let's talk about integrating
Storyboards into your applications.
So how many of you either have
an app on the store today,
or are in the process of writing one
that you'd like to be on the store?
No one.
So we would love it if you
leave here today and start
taking advantage of Storyboards
immediately in your applications.
And so we've built them from day one
to be flexible and to be powerful.
And if you're going to do this,
there are sort of two
approaches that you might take.
The first is you can rebuild
your entire UI from scratch.
This isn't as crazy as it sounds.
You get to get rid of a lot of
code by moving to storyboards.
And less code is less bugs.
Of course, if you don't want to do that,
you can also adopt them incrementally,
taking advantage of storyboards
to describe new user
interface for new features.
And today, that's exactly what
we're going to show you.
Josh is a big fan of coffee.
But I'm a big fan of food.
Last year,
I built this application on stage,
and the reaction I got was, wow,
it's great.
I have a way to view my recipes now.
But I want your recipes.
So today we're going to add
some functionality to it.
We're going to add a
UI for sharing our recipes.
What we're going to do is
take our existing application,
get some user interface
defined in a storyboard,
and present it to our users in a popover.
This is actually a pretty typical
case that you might be interested in.
So let's get started.
Going to go to my
application for a second.
And open in Xcode.
You know, I think I want a bigger font.
I'm getting a little old.
So, here we go.
Now,
What I'm going to do here is
actually a little interesting.
I'm told that social
networking is quite popular,
but I'm not very social myself.
So I've asked some of my colleagues to
put together the experience for sharing
these recipes on a social network and
using a web service that they've set up.
So what I have here is a storyboard file,
which represents the UI for doing this,
and a static library that contains
all the implementations for the
view controllers and everything
that's involved in doing that.
I'm going to add that to my application.
And I will copy them.
Great.
So now,
what I want to do is put a button in
the toolbar that when you tap on it,
presents a popover.
This is something that if you've had any
experience writing iPad applications,
is pretty common.
Going to go to the library.
And find a bar button item,
and I'll just drag it in.
And I want it on the right side,
so I'll add some space before it.
There we go.
I'm going to call it Share.
Now, as is typical with buttons
inside of user interfaces that
you design in Interface Builder,
you probably want an outlet to
the button and an action from it.
So, I'm going to hide the utility
area and open up the Assistant.
So, as you can see,
Xcode has helpfully shown me the
files owner of this particular view.
So, I'm just going to control drag
from the button to the header,
and I'll call this Share Button.
And boom, I have an outlet.
Now, I want to set up an action.
I'm going to go to the Navigate menu,
and select Jump to Next Counterpart,
and here's my implementation file.
Now I'm going to control drag
from the button into here,
and set up an IB action.
I'll call it Share Action.
Now, typing on stage actually
ends up being really hard,
so I have some code that I'm
just going to paste in here.
And what this does is we
load a storyboard from this
file that we dragged in.
We get the initial view
controller out of it.
We take the sharing view controller
defined by that workflow,
hand it a recipe,
and then present it in a popover.
So let's build and run
and see what we get.
and Ron, build and run.
Here we go.
I'm going to go to landscape.
And select fillet of beef au poivre,
because I could really
go for a steak right now.
And I'm going to share it.
So I click the button,
and here I have some
UI that I didn't design,
someone else did for me,
and it's going to let me
share my application with
my recipe with the world.
I'll select the share option,
and as you can see, here's our recipe.
And now we're going to publish it.
Whoa, what just happened?
Let's look at that again,
'cause I think it's pretty cool.
So, what we're seeing here is an
example of a custom segue.
As it turns out,
I happen to have the source code
that provided this UI for me.
So I'm going to quit the simulator
and go back to the finder,
and go to that project.
And here, we have the Storyboard.
Pretty simple.
And you'll notice that we have
a segue here with a different
icon than what we've seen before.
Going to open up the utility
area and take a look at it.
You'll notice it's a custom Segway,
and it has a custom class.
So let's take a look at that.
And it's pretty simple.
We have one method, perform.
As I mentioned earlier,
this is your chance to set up
the relationships of the view
controllers in transition,
as well as to perform
your visual transition.
So here, I'm calling a C function,
which someone who is a lot better at core
animation than I am put together for me.
Transitioning through my navigation
controller stack after some delay.
If we take a look at that,
you'll see here we're
using an emitter layer,
and just adjusting the values of the
particles that it's drawing as we go.
And that provided for that effect.
And really, that's, you know,
probably not a great idea to burn
view controllers under your users.
You see what you can do just by writing
relatively few lines of code in order
to provide a custom visual feel as your
users navigate through your application.
So what did we just see?
Well, you can begin adopting storyboards
in your application without
rewriting the entire thing,
just loading one to
present parts of your UI.
And if you have things in your
application that aren't well
represented by the system transitions,
you can define them in a custom segue.
Maybe you have a view
that pops out of a button,
something like that.
And of course, what we've gone over today
is what Storyboards are,
and how you can create them and use them,
both in new applications
and existing applications,
by taking advantage of
our editor and our API.
If you're interested in this,
you can find out more about using
Interface Builder in Xcode 4.
It was a session yesterday.
If you were at Stumpy Experts last night,
you can hop in the Wayback
Machine and go there.
Otherwise, they'll be on the videos.
There's also a session that's
being repeated tomorrow,
What's New in Cocoa Touch,
going over all the new APIs that
we have available in iOS 5.
And if custom segues
are really your thing,
there's a session on
Core Animation Essentials.
With that, thanks guys.